18: Document Element Picker and how to create Elements (#8086)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 18/umbraco-cms/model-your-content/property-editors/built-in-umbraco-property-editors/element-picker.md

    // Create Udi's of the pages
    var pageUdi = Udi.Create(Constants.UdiEntityType.Document, page.Key);
    var anotherPageUdi = Udi.Create(Constants.UdiEntityType.Document, anotherPage.Key);

    // Create a list of the page udi's
    var udis = new List<string>{pageUdi.ToString(), anotherPageUdi.ToString()};

    // Set the value of the property with alias 'featuredArticles'.
    content.SetValue("featuredArticles", string.Join(",", udis));

    // Save the change
    ContentService.Save(content);
}
```

Although the use of a GUID is preferable, you can also use the numeric ID to get the page:

```csharp
@{
    // Get the page using it's id
    var content = ContentService.GetById(1234);
}
```

If Models Builder is enabled you can get the alias of the desired property without using a magic string:

```csharp
@using Umbraco.Cms.Core.PublishedCache
@inject IPublishedContentTypeCache PublishedContentTypeCache
@{
    // Set the value of the property with alias 'featuredArticles'
    content.SetValue(Home.GetModelPropertyType(PublishedContentTypeCache, x => x.FeaturedArticles).Alias, string.Join(",", udis));
}

> ```

Reviewer: The Element Picker value is a collection of element IDs (keys).

```suggestion
The Element Picker stores an array of Element keys (`Guid[]`). The example below illustrates how an Element Picker value can be added or changed programmatically.

```csharp
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Models;
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Serialization;
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Services;

namespace Umbraco.Documentation;

public class ElementPickerExample
{
    private readonly IContentService _contentService;
    private readonly IJsonSerializer _jsonSerializer;

    public ElementPickerExample(IContentService contentService, IJsonSerializer jsonSerializer)
    {
        _contentService = contentService;
        _jsonSerializer = jsonSerializer;
    }

    public bool SaveElementPickerValue(Guid contentId, string propertyAlias, Guid[] pickedElementIds)
    {
        IContent? content = _contentService.GetById(contentId);
        if (content is null)
        {
            return false;
        }

        content.SetValue(propertyAlias, _jsonSerializer.Serialize(pickedElementIds));
        return true;
    }
}
```
```

---
description: >-
  Learn how to configure and use the Element Picker property editor in Umbraco CMS.
---

# Element Picker

`Schema Alias: Umbraco.ElementPicker`

`UI Alias: Umb.PropertyEditorUi.ElementPicker`

`Returns: IEnumerable<IPublishedElement>`

> The Element Picker enables you to choose a specific element to display as part of your content. Elements are built as [Element Types](../../content-types-and-structure/data/defining-content/elements.md) in the Settings section and managed from the Library section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Element Picker enables you to choose one or more elements to display as part of your content. Elements are based on [Element Types](../../content-types-and-structure/data/defining-content/elements.md) defined in the Settings section. They are created and managed in the Library section.
```

Reviewer 2: As I understand, the Element Picker has `IEnumerable<IPublishedElement>` return type so it supports multiple selections.

## Data Type Definition Example

![Element Picker Data Type Settings](../../../.gitbook/assets/elementpicker-data-type-definition.png)

### Amount

Define how many elements should be allowed to pick via the Element Picker.

### Start Node

Choose a start node for the Element Picker. Use this option when your Library section is organized into folders.

### Ignore User Start Nodes

> Checking this field allows users to choose nodes they normally cannot access.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Checking this field allows users to select items outside their assigned start nodes.
```

## MVC View Example

### Without Models Builder

```csharp
@{
    IEnumerable<IPublishedElement>? elements = Model.Value<IEnumerable<IPublishedElement>>("elementPicker");
    if (elements != null) {
        foreach (var element in elements)
        {
            <h1>@element.Name</h1>
            <p>@element.Value("featuredText")</p>
        }
    }
}
```

### With Models Builder

```csharp
@{
    IEnumerable<IPublishedElement>? elements = Model.ElementPicker;
    if (elements != null) {
        foreach (var element in elements)
        {
            <h1>@element.Name</h1>
            <p>@element.Value("featuredText")</p>
        }
    }
}
```

## Add values programmatically

> The Element Picker stores an array of Element keys (`Guid[]`). The example below illustrates how an Element Picker value can be added or changed programmatically.

Reviewer 2: Did you intend to remove the example from here or is it just missing :D For consistency purposes with other articles, it may be a good idea to have an example in this section. If not, maybe remove the entire section or rephrase "The example below illustrates how an ..." appropriately?

Author: Yes. Kenn suggested some code changes, but it looks like it wasn't added properly.
